<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXXIV: Lord Caterham Approves</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-34" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXIV</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Lord Caterham Approves</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>“Father,” said Bundle, “I've got to break a piece of news to you. You're going to lose me.”</p>
			<p>“Nonsense,” said Lord Caterham. “Don't tell me that you're suffering from galloping consumption or a weak heart or anything like that, because I simply don't believe it.”</p>
			<p>“It's not death,” said Bundle. “It's marriage.”</p>
			<p>“Very nearly as bad,” said Lord Caterham. “I suppose I shall have to come to the wedding, all dressed up in tight, uncomfortable clothes, and give you away. And Lomax may think it necessary to kiss me in the vestry.”</p>
			<p>“Good heavens! You don't think I'm going to marry George, do you?” cried Bundle.</p>
			<p>“Well, something like that seemed to be in the wind last time I saw you,” said her father. “Yesterday morning, you know.”</p>
			<p>“I'm going to be married to someone a hundred times nicer than George,” said Bundle.</p>
			<p>“I hope so, I'm sure,” said Lord Caterham. “But one never knows. I don't feel you're really a good judge of character, Bundle. You told me that young Thesiger was a cheerful inefficient, and from all I hear now it seems that he was one of the most efficient criminals of the day. The sad thing is that I never met him. I was thinking of writing my reminiscences soon—with a special chapter on murderers I have met—and by a purely technical oversight, I never met this young man.”</p>
			<p>“Don't be silly,” said Bundle. “You know you haven't got the energy to write reminiscences or anything else.”</p>
			<p>“I wasn't actually going to write them myself,” said Lord Caterham. “I believe that's never done. But I met a very charming girl the other day and that's her special job. She collects the material and does all the actual writing.”</p>
			<p>“And what do you do?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, just give her a few facts for half an hour every day. Nothing more than that.”</p>
			<p>After a slight pause, Lord Caterham said:</p>
			<p>“She was a nice-looking girl—very restful and sympathetic.”</p>
			<p>“Father,” said Bundle, “I have a feeling that without me you will run into deadly danger.”</p>
			<p>“Different kinds of danger suit different kinds of people,” said Lord Caterham.</p>
			<p>He was moving away, when he turned back and said over his shoulder:</p>
			<p>“By the way, Bundle, who are you marrying?”</p>
			<p>“I was wondering,” said Bundle, “when you were going to ask me that. I'm going to marry Bill Eversleigh.”</p>
			<p>The egoist thought it over for a minute. Then he nodded in complete satisfaction.</p>
			<p>“Excellent,” he said. “He's scratch, isn't he? He and I can play together in the foursomes in the Autumn Meeting.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
